# FACE-RECOGNITION-USING-OPENCV-IN-PYTHON
Face is most commonly used biometric to recognize people. Face recognition has received substantial attention from researchers due to human activities found in various applications of security like airport, criminal detection, face tracking, forensic etc. Compared to other biometric traits like palm print, Iris, finger print etc., face biometrics can be non-intrusive. They can be taken even without user’s knowledge and further can be used for security based applications like criminal detection, face tracking, airport security, and forensic surveillance systems. Face recognition involves capturing face image from a video or from a surveillance camera. They are compared with the stored database. Face biometrics involves training known images, classify them with known classes and then they are stored in the database. When a test image is given to the system it is classified and compared with stored database. Face biometrics is a challenging field of research with various limitations imposed for a machine face recognition like variations in head pose, change in illumination, facial expression, aging, occlusion due to accessories etc.,. Various approaches were suggested by researchers in overcoming the limitations stated. 72 Automatic face recognition involves face detection, feature extraction and face recognition. Face recognition algorithms are broadly classified into two classes as image template based and geometric feature based. The template based methods compute correlation between face and one or more model templates to find the face identity. Principal component analysis, linear discriminate analysis, kernel methods etc. are used to construct face templates. The geometric feature based methods are used to analyze explicit local features and their geometric relations (elastic bung graph method). Multi resolution tools such as contour lets, ridge lets were found to be useful for analyzing information content of images and found its application in image processing, pattern recognition, and computer vision. Curvelets transform is used for texture classification and image de-noising. Application of Curvelets transform for feature extraction in image processing is still under research.
